# 1197. Minimum Knight Moves

## 題目說明

In an **infinite** chess board with coordinates from `-infinity` to `+infinity`, you have a **knight** at square `[0, 0]`.

A knight has 8 possible moves it can make, as illustrated below. Each move is two squares in a cardinal direction, then one square in an orthogonal direction.

https://imgur.com/a/BpIFdvx

Return the minimum number of steps needed to move the knight to the square `[x, y]`. It is guaranteed the answer exists.

Example 1:

```
Input: x = 2, y = 1
Output: 1
Explanation: [0, 0] → [2, 1]
```

Example 2:

```
Input: x = 5, y = 5
Output: 4
Explanation: [0, 0] → [2, 1] → [4, 2] → [3, 4] → [5, 5]
```

Constraints:

```
-300 <= x, y <= 300
0 <= |x| + |y| <= 300
```

## 解題程式碼

### 解法 1. 超神奇，有時能過有時又 TLE...

```javascript
var minKnightMoves = function (x, y) {
  const visited = new Set([`${0}-${0}`]);
  const queue = [[0, 0]];
  let moves = 0;
  const dirs = [
    [1, 2],
    [2, 1],
    [2, -1],
    [1, -2],
    [-1, -2],
    [-2, -1],
    [-2, 1],
    [-1, 2],
  ];

  while (queue.length) {
    let len = queue.length;

    for (let i = 0; i < len; i++) {
      const [curX, curY] = queue.shift();
      if (curX === x && curY === y) return moves;

      for (let [dirX, dirY] of dirs) {
        let newX = curX + dirX;
        let newY = curY + dirY;
        if (visited.has(`${newX}-${newY}`)) continue;
        visited.add(`${newX}-${newY}`);
        queue.push([newX, newY]);
      }
    }
    moves++;
  }
};
```

### 解法 2.

#### Symmetry of Solutions

Before explaining how we can apply the DFS algorithm to this problem, we should address the **symmetry** of the answers, which we haven't touched on so far.

> We claim that the target (x,y), its horizontally, vertically, and diagonally symmetric points (i.e. (x,−y),(−x,y),(−x,−y)) share the same answer as the target point.

Due to the symmetry of the board (i.e. from `-infinity` to `+infinity`) and the symmetry of the allowed movements, we can rest assured that the above claim is correct, without rigid mathematical proof.

Based on the above insight, we can focus on the **first quadrant** of the coordinate plane where both *x* and *y* are positive.
Any target that is outside of the first quadrant, can be shifted to its symmetric point in the first quadrant by taking the absolute value of each coordinate, i.e. (*∣x∣,∣y∣*).

> At the beginning of the DFS as well as during the process of DFS, we will always shift the exploration to the first quadrant.

#### Reduced Directions

Now that we have contained the exploration within the first quadrant, we can further focus on which directions we employ.
For a target that is situated in the first quadrant, though technically we could move in **8** different directions, there are only two directions (i.e. left-down and down-left) that will move us closer to the origin.

> Indeed, before we reach the **immediate neighborhood** of the origin, we only need to explore the two left-down directions (with offsets of (−1,−2) and (−2,−1)), since the rest of the directions will deviate further away from the origin.

The **immediate neighborhood** of the origin, refers to the points of where the sum of coordinates is less than or equal to 2, i.e. *x+y<=2*.
In order to reach an immediate neighbor point from the origin, we need to do a bit of **zigzag**.
In the following graph, we show examples of how to reach some of the immediate neighbors via zigzag steps.

https://imgur.com/a/ed3uj6X

As it turns out, any immediate neighbors with (*x+y==2*), takes exactly **2** steps to reach when starting from the origin.

#### Algorithm

With the above insights in mind, we can begin to work on our DFS algorithm.

> Rather than starting from the origin, we start from the **target** and walk **backwards** to reach the origin.
Also, instead of exploring all 8 directions, we only need to explore the two left-down directions as we discussed before.

Assume that the function `dfs(x, y)` returns the minimum steps required to reach the target point `(x, y)`, the idea of DFS can be expressed in the following formula:

*dfs(x,y)=min(dfs(∣x−2∣,∣y−1∣),dfs(∣x−1∣,∣y−2∣))+1*

The formula can be interpreted as such: at each step of the backward exploration process, by only exploring the left-down directions we can obtain the shortest path.

As one might notice, the above function is a recursive function.
And it is critical to define the ***base cases*** to make the definition sound.
There are in general two base cases:

* case 1): `x=0, y=0`, when we reach the origin, no further steps are required to reach our goal, *i.e.* `dfs(x, y) = 0`.

* case 2): `x + y = 2`, when we are at a *immediate neighbor* as we discussed before, it takes two more steps to reach our goal, *i.e.* `dfs(x, y) = 2`.

**Note**: one might argue that there is another base case to cover, which is `x + y = 1`, *e.g.* `x=1, y=0`.
This is not our base case though, because by taking one more step further, it will be reduced down to our base case 2), *i.e.* `|x-1| + |y-2| = 2`.

Given the above definitions, one can intuitively implement them with a recursive function.
Additionally, it is important to apply the ***memoization*** technique to prevent duplicate calculations from occurring during the recursive process.

The above form of recursion with memoization is also known as **Top-Down Dynamic Programming**, where we work out the solutions from top to down (base cases), and we reuse the intermediate results (with memoization) to speed up the calculation.

```javascript
var minKnightMoves = function(x, y) {
    const cache = new Map();

    const DFS = (x, y) => {
        if (cache.has(`${x}-${y}`)) return cache.get(`${x}-${y}`);

        if (x + y === 0) return 0;
        if (x + y === 2) return 2;

        let res = Math.min(DFS(Math.abs(x - 1), Math.abs(y - 2)), DFS(Math.abs(x - 2), Math.abs(y - 1))) + 1;
        cache.set(`${x}-${y}`, res);
        return res;
    }
    return DFS(Math.abs(x), Math.abs(y));
};
```

原來可以只考慮一個象限來處理...

## 解題思路、演算法

這題可以用 BFS，解法跟 1730. Shortest Path to Get Food 很像，只是這題會從八個方向開始查找，然後查找停止條件也不太一樣，但套 BFS 樣板基本能順利解出。

## 解法的時間、空間複雜度

時間複雜度: 解法 1. `O((Math.max(x, y))^2)`，有點像雷達圖，從起點(0, 0) 開始往 8 個方向一圈圈向外找，解法 2. `O(x * y)`，最壞的情況就是探索第一象限小於 x, y 的所有格子
空間複雜度: 解法 1. `O((Math.max(x, y))^2)`，解法 2. `O(x * y)`

## 參考資料
